# Classroom Study Settings

The context for this study was an undergraduate course in an intelligence
training program in a US university. The program was designed to train students
to become professional intelligence analysts. A key requirement of the course is
to emphasize hands-on practice on team-based intelligence analysis. During the
first nine weeks, students learned strategic knowledge (e.g. bottom-up analysis
and top-down analysis) and structured analytic techniques, such as IEW, ACH and
network analysis, and practiced to apply these techniques to solving two small
projects with state-of-the-art tools including PARC ACH and IBM Analyst's
Notebook.

Our study began from the 10th week of the course and lasted for one week. The
task was to investigate a series of bank robberies fabricated by the course
instructor. Teams were provided with a set of documents pertaining to seven
robberies, including police reports, witnesses reports, video records, and news
media. The task was designed open-ended, which meant that there was no single
answer to the task. The instructor explained that the task was to simulate real
world scenarios, in which analysts always reasoned in the circumstances of
uncertainty, ambiguity, and complexity. The instructor told the students that 6
hours was expected to complete the project, including in-class and outside-class
work. In the end of the project students were required to submit a team report,
describing their hypotheses, assumptions, conclusions and supporting evidence.

Students were given a tutorial on CAnalytics a week before the project began.
One of the authors walked through features of CAnalytics and then let students
accomplish a small case analysis on their own pace. During the study week, one
author was always available to help with any technical issues. Although students
were encouraged to make full use of CAnalytics, to ensure a naturalist
environment students were always free to employ any other tools that they
believed useful.

Of the 98 students enrolled in the course (from two sections), 73 consented to
participate in the study. Students were randomly assigned into 25 teams (23
three-person teams and 2 two-person teams). Research suggested that group size
be an important factor in group collaboration, thus two-person teams might
behave differently from three-person teams. We thus excluded data from the
two-person teams in our analysis in this paper. Also, from the log (and
confirmed by their questionnaire), we found that one team made little use of
CAnalytics and opted for other tools (Google Doc). Hence their data was also
excluded. Thus in this paper we reported the result from 22 teams.

All the students held major in the program of Security and Risk Analysis. Most
(75%) of them were in the third academic year (3.05 years in average),
indicating that participants in our study had relatively advanced experience and
knowledge in intelligence analysis. Participants' age ranged from 19 to 28 (20.3
in average). 77% of the participants were male.

<!-- TODO: add reference to measures -->

We employed several data collection approaches. We administrated a post-study
questionnaire, which included several 7-index questions measuring individual's
self-reported awareness (adapted from [@Convertino2011]), team communication
(adapted from [@Convertino2011]), collective efficacy (adapted from
[@Convertino2011]), perceived performance (adapted from [@Goyal2014]), and
cognitive load [@Hart1988]. The questionnaire also included open-ended questions
asking how the tool helped or impeded their work. We captured user interactions
with system logs. Instead of simply logging low-level events like mouse click
and keyboard strokes, we recorded actions such as making an annotation and
deleting an entity. Finally, we reviewed team reports and graded them as an
indicator of team performance. We designed an assessment rubric together with
the course instructor. In analysis of the result, we utilized artifact
analysis, log analysis, and qualitative analysis of the questionnaire.

<!-- Although there is no single answer to the task problem, there exist several
pieces of key evidence that suggest links across different robbery cases.
Together with the course instructor (also the creator of the project task), we
For example, whether they captured that Case 3 and Case 5 is much likely to be
committed by the same group of robbers; whether they captured that a ``copycat''
in Case 6? The team get one point when they discussed that hypothesis, and get
one point when they provide reasonable evidence. -->
