# Related work

Many researches have been conducted to investigate design features and tools to support collaborative information analysis. For example, Goyal and Fussell [@Goyal2016] studied the effect of hypotheses sharing on sensemaking. Mahyar and Tory [@Mahyar2013] designed a visualization to connect collaborators' common findings and evaluated its support for team performance. Hajizadeh et al. [@Hajizadeh2013] explored how sharing teammate's interactions affects awareness. These studies report interesting result of controlled lab studies to validate hypotheses of specific design features. However, they do not provide insight on how teams would collaborate in the real world over extended period of time.

Several field studies were conducted aimed to understand design requirements of collaborative information analysis in more realistic setting. Chin et al. [@Chin2009] observed and analyzed the analytic strategies, work practices, tools ad collaboration norms of professional intelligence analysts. Kang and Stasko [@Kang2011] studied how student analysts, as in our study, completed in-class intelligence projects. Carroll et al. [@Carroll2013] attempted to model a complex analytic task scenario in a lab setting, and examined the development of team awareness in a four-hour-long task. These studies helped improve understanding of current work practice with commercial tools or no supporting tools at all. However, it remains unknown how teams would behave with technology that is explicitly designed for collaborative information analysis.

Before the study with our tool, we observed how teams of students accomplished a course project in the class. Students practiced applying IEW to extract and model data from documents. They then replicated key facts into analytic artifacts such as an ACH Matrix in PARC ACH, a timeline and a network graph in Analyst's Notebook. However, these tools lack serious collaboration support. Analysts were unable to contribute simultaneously. The analysis work was often divided by tools: each individual created and analyzed an artifact with a tool on their own. This had the consequence that findings and hypotheses be made without integrating collective efforts and diverse knowledge. Analysts must coordinate work by manually sharing notebooks or graphs, resulting in a scattered placement of results, requiring repeated manual resynchronizing to identify redundant or missing pieces of information, analysis of information, and analytic hypotheses. The instructor and students in our study were aware of the shortcomings of available tools with respect to support of collaboration.
