# View as resource

In addition to sharing of data, we find that views of data should become shareable resources as well. With the identical data pool, analysts often have different views of data. For example, analysts can apply a filter to have a reduced data view, highlight an area to sharpen analytic focus, and re-layout the node-link graph to cluster relevant entities. While the data pool represents the information the team have available, individual views of the data reflect analyst's \emph{interpretation} toward the information. Therefore we propose that just like data, views, which embodies interpretation of data, should be shareable.

Views as resources should also be extensible, and reusable. For example, several participants reflected that there were situations when they found a collaborator's view useful and wanted to build their own work upon that view without manually reproducing the view. With views as resources, individuals can take the views to their need. They can also deliberatively share their own view when they feel other collaborators will be interested. Shared views are interactive rather than static images, so that analysts can still perform full functions including filtering and highlighting, and are able to evolve the view with collective team efforts, a critical requirement emphasized in \cite{Carroll2013}


We found that views should be treated as shareable resources. Complex cognitive and collaborative activities are often achieved through meaningful views of data, as externalization of human thought, offload of cognitive demand, and mediation of team cognition. In our current system, teams share the same data pool but have individual views of data. This was originally designed on purpose to enable individuals to have their own arrangement of data and to avoid interference. But we found flaw in such design as different views could hinder teams from collaboratively developing a theory. We propose that views should be another \emph{resource} in addition to others like data and tools, which could be shared, reused, and evolved. Teammates could deliberatively share their own view when they believe In our planned next version of tools, individuals still have personal views but can always share views as public resources. Teammates can take shared views for their own use and continue developing the views without duplicating it. This is different from public/private workspace as implemented in \cite{Convertino2011}, in which teams only have a single public space. With complex tasks multiple threads may be undertaken at the same time and sharing in one space may cause confusion. This is also different from what \cite{Nobarany2012} implemented as a means to facilitate reuse of views because their views are static images and limit the possibility to evolve with collective team efforts.
