# Background

The course of information analytics teaches knowledge and skills to tackle with complex information spaces of facts and relationships. A common example of information analytics is crime investigation; a variety of facts are assembled, including witness interviews, financial records, and social connections among persons of interest, from which investigators identify and evaluate casual hypotheses.

Collaboration in information analysis is becoming increasingly important in the context of globalization characterized by an unprecedented acceleration of information growth and an increasing degree of complexity. Vision 2015 [@Vision2015] from the Director of National Intelligence notes that practice of Information analysis features *“a dramatic shift from traditional emphasis on self-reliance toward more collaborative operations”*. Young analysts must be trained with skills that are required to address the challenge, including the techniques and experience of collaboration. However, in many contemporary educational approaches, collaboration is not supported at all, or is a hoped-for concomitant, but not explicitly supported [@Martin2014].

Before we deployed our tool in the course, we took an informal observation of how  students accomplished a course project. In the project, teams of students investigated into a crime scenario and used techniques such as Information Extraction and Weighting (Figure 1), analysis of competing hypotheses, timeline analysis, and link analysis. The intention of the project was to provide students hands-on collaborative experience to apply and blend multiple analytic techniques to a practical problem.

One technique students employed in class was Information Extraction and Weighting (IEW). Analysts extract useful information and organize them in a table. After collecting the information, analysts rearrange the information items in ways that fit their analysis, such as an ACH Matrix, timeline, etc.


However, we found most teams took a loosely coupled collaboration approach, some to such an extent that little collaboration effort was involved. For example, team members picked up an analytic product and started to work on it separately. During the process individuals extracted evidence from the raw documents and accretedly added to the product without sharing their findings, until by the end when they put pieces together in the final team report.

Some teams attempted to be more collaborative by synchronizing works through file sharing service like Dropbox and Google Drive. These services provide real time sharing of individual works. However, they only provide sharing on the level of files, whereas collaboration of information analysis requires sharing on a much finer level of evidence and hypotheses

We posit that collaboration in information analysis should be more closely coupled, in which individuals should utilize and integrate their varied skills and knowledge, frame a problem from multiple perspectives where individuals would not have accomplished, and develop and evaluate multiple competing hypotheses to overcome confirmation bias.

We also propose that such loosely coupled collaboration behavior is partly shaped by the tools available. The tools team utilized, such as Microsoft Word for IEW table, PARC ACH for ACH analysis, and Analyst's Notebook for timeline analysis and link analysis, are all designed for single users only. The constraint of these tools determined that the teams could contribute simultaneously; instead, teams sought for more efficient approaches and divided labor by tools. We propose that team collaboration could be improved with enhancement of tool's collaboration support. One example is likely to support our argument: Instead of using Microsoft Word for editing IEW table, one team created a shared Google Doc. The team thus could, and indeed did, edit the table at the same time. The team also had more discussions when they were creating the IEW table as they tried to figure out how to categorize evidence without conflicting each other. The observation further motivated us to deploy a collaborative information analysis tool in class and investigate their behavior change, if any.
